https://www.purdue.edu/science/Current_Students/curriculum_and_degree_requirements/current-students-page1.html
Fall 2023 and Forward Language and Culture Options
Students following a Fall 2023 and forward plan of study will chose from the following options to fulfill the language and culture requirement.
Two (2) approved foreign language courses, and one (1) 
JEDI 
course from the Culture and Diversity course list
One (1) approved foreign language course, one (1) 
JEDI 
course, and an approved short-term study abroad program (minimum eight (8) days containing a minimum 3-credit course and significant immersion in the local culture). See your Academic Advisor for more information.
Three (3) approved culture or diversity courses containing at least one (1) 
JEDI
 course. See 
Requirements
.
An approved 
study abroad experience
 and one (1) 
JEDI 
course. Once approved, a non-credit waiver applies to a student's degree audit, and six (6) credits are available for elective coursework to meet the minimum 120-credit hour degree requirement. See your Academic Advisor for more information.
 An approved program must satisfy the following criteria:
Take place outside the United States and meet one of the following program requirements: 
Approved semester or year-long Study Abroad program
Summer program of at least seven and a half weeks duration
Approved short-term study abroad program (minimum eight (8) days containing a minimum 3-credit course and significant immersion in the local culture)
Purdue Summer Internship Program
College of Education Maymester in Tanzania Study Abroad Program
Include a minimum three (3) credits of coursework or research
Include significant immersion in the local culture and language independent of any US-based program in which the student may be participating
Students wishing to use an approved study abroad program to meet the Foreign Language and Culture requirement must complete the Experiential Learning Contract process.
Foreign Language and Culture Requirement Waiver. Students may be approved a full or partial waiver based on their catalog term. Pre-Fall 2023 students will receive a full waiver. Fall 2023 and forward students will receive a partial waiver and be required to complete a Justice, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (JEDI) course from the approved course list.
International Students. International students meet the intent of the Foreign Language and Culture requirement through their international experience at Purdue University and completion of one (1) 
JEDI 
 course.
Domestic Students with international experience. Students who have, through family and community, experienced a culture in addition to American culture may be eligible for a waiver of the Foreign Language and Culture requirement. Interested students should consult with advisor. If recommended, students will contact 
scienceadvising@purdue.edu
 to schedule an interview. If approved, a non-credit waiver is applied to a student's degree audit (mPP), and six (6) credits become elective coursework to meet the minimum 120-credit hour degree requirement.
Curriculum Notice: courses taken to meet the Foreign Language and Culture requirement may not also be used to meet the General Education or Great Issues requirements.
Study Abroad scholarship
 opportunities are available.
Earning Core Curricular Requirements through Experience
Students may meet selected core curriculum requirements through approved experiential learning opportunities. For more information on earning requirements through experience, please 
click here
.