https://www.purdue.edu/science/Current_Students/curriculum_and_degree_requirements/general-education.html
General Education Requirement
Outcome: 
Demonstrated 
breadth of knowledge and cultural appreciation
. College of Science students gain insights into the Humanities, Social Sciences, and Management to deepen their awareness of other disciplines of thought, which complements and informs their scientific understanding of the world. Students complete the General Education requirement by completing three courses (9 credits) from the approved course list. Students are encouraged to speak with their academic advisors about course options that expand their perspectives and further develop analytical and critical thinking skills.
Curricular Notices:
Students may use only ONE course (3 credits) from the following subjects: AGEC, MGMT, OBHR, ECON, or ENTR to meet their general education requirement.
Approved courses may be combined to satisfy the General Education requirement. Note: The presence of a course on the approved list does not guarantee the course will be available during all terms.
Some courses on the General Education approved course list share the same course subject and number but have different titles. Only those titles listed are approved. Consult with your advisor if you have a question about the suitability of a course.
Courses taken to meet the General Education requirement 
may not
 also be used to meet the Cultural Diversity (Language and Culture) or Great Issues requirement.
Students are encouraged to nominate courses for the general education requirement. Please submit course suggestions to your academic advisor. 
General Education Elective List
Courses that 
may not
 meet the General Education requirement 
Independent research courses will not be approved to meet the General Education requirement. Courses cross-listed with a course in the College of Science or those with a laboratory or studio component are also not approved. In addition to the restrictions mentioned above, the following courses are excluded:
PHIL 15000 (Principles of Logic)
PHIL 45000 (Symbolic Logic) 
PHIL 55000 (Advanced Symbolic Logic) 
PSY 20100 (Introduction to Statistics in Psychology)
PSY 20400 (Use of Computers in Psychology) 
PSY 30600 - Statistical Analysis for Experiments
PSY 50000 (Statistical Methods Applied to Psychology, Education, and Sociology) 
PSY 50100 (Mathematics Essential for Quantitative Psychology) 
SOC 38200 (Introduction to Methods of Social Research) 
COM 11400 (Fundamentals of Speech)
ENTR courses other than ENTR 20000 and ENTR 20100