https://www.purdue.edu/science/Current_Students/curriculum_and_degree_requirements/language-and-culture-experiential-requirement.html
Language and Culture Experiential Guidelines
Language and Culture Requirement
All College of Science majors must demonstrate an understanding of another culture in addition to their own. Students may meet this core degree requirement in several ways including completion of an approved Study Abroad experience. Such an experience will meet the nine-credit Language and Culture requirement.
To secure approval, a study abroad experience must satisfy the following requirements:
Must take place outside the United States and meet 
one
 of the following requirements:
Minimum one semester (fall, spring) program, or
Summer program of at least seven and a half weeks in duration, or
Approved College of Education Block Study Abroad program, or
        And,
Consist of taking courses and/or working on a research project, and
Have significant immersion in the local culture and language independent of any US-based program in which the student may be participating.
Documentation Process
Students will work with their Academic Advisor to:
Determine the appropriateness of a study abroad experience in relation to intended outcomes of the Foreign Language and Culture requirement, degree requirements and desired degree completion date, and
Complete the experiential learning contract process.
Contract Process
Students must complete and submit the following documents to request approval of their study abroad experience:
Completed and signed 
Experiential Learning Contract
Submission of a statement supporting the use of a study abroad experience to meet the Foreign Language and Culture requirement. The statement should address the criteria listed above. Statements should be sent to 
scienceadvising@purdue.edu
 .
Final Approval Process
Students are required to submit a reflection paper (minimum four double-space pages) using the 
Study Abroad Reflection Paper Guidelines
.
Students are highly encouraged to complete a review of the guidelines before and during the study abroad experience to be sure documentation and information is readily available for construction of the reflection paper.
All documentation should be sent to the College of Science Undergraduate Advising Office, Young Hall, 6th Floor, 155 S Grant St, West Lafayette, IN 47907 or emailed to 
scienceadvising@purdue.edu
.