https://www.purdue.edu/science/Current_Students/curriculum_and_degree_requirements/TWTP%20Requirement.html
TECHNICAL WRITING AND PRESENTATION (TWTP)
Curricular Outcome: Ability to 
communicate well
, both orally and in writing. Students will develop college-level writing and presentation skills through the Technical Writing and Technical Presentation requirement.
TECHNICAL WRITING AND TECHNICAL PRESENTATION (TWTP)
Students may elect to take one course to meet the TWTP requirement or a combination of courses. The list of approved courses below contains all course options. Students may also elect to use experiences as defined below to complete this important core requirement. University Core outcome, Oral Communication, is met through course completion of this requirement.
List of Approved Courses
Technical Writing (TW)
The TW requirement may be met by completing one of the following options:
Option 1: Course in technical writing from the 
list of approved courses
; 
or
Option 2: Scholarly publication:
Paper accepted for publication in a peer-reviewed journal or peer-reviewed conference proceedings in which the student is the lead author or has written the large majority of the paper; 
or
Paper a College of Science faculty member with expertise in the area deems of publishable quality; 
or
Three approved papers of at least 1,500 words each, at least one of which makes a strong or persuasive argument
Earning Core Curricular Requirements through Experience (Option 2)
Students wishing to meet the Technical Writing requirement through Option 2 are required to complete the 
Experiential Learning contract process
.
International Students Only
: International students whose primary high school/equivalent instruction was 
not
 in English must meet the Technical Writing requirement using option 1 only.
Technical Presenting (Oral Communication)
The Technical Presentation requirement may be met by completing one of the following options:
Option 1: Course in technical presenting from the 
list of approved courses
; 
or
Option 2: Presentation of scientific work: 
at a scientific meeting (sole or predominant presenter); or
at an adjudicated poster session in the presence of a certified judge (written feedback will be required to complete the Experiential Learning Contract process); or
 during an internship or co-op; or
Three approved 10-minute (or longer) presentations within science course(s).
Earning Core Curricular Requirements through Experience (Option 2)
Students wishing to meet the Technical Presentation requirement through Option 2 are required to complete the 
Experiential Learning Contract process
.
Special Note:
 Students completing both COM 11400 (elective) and COM 21700 (Technical Writing and Presentation requirement) may use both courses to meet degree requirements.